well this is how the vaccination
campaign is expected to unfold in the
coming days it started in central Gaza
at 6:00 a.m. local time on Sunday it's
expected to run for 9 hours in
demarcated areas more than 2,100 health
workers and trained volunteers are
operating at hundreds of locations 300
mobile teams are also assisting with the
roll out after Central Gaza the campaign
moves to the south of the strip before
concluding in the north a second round
of vaccinations is scheduled to take
place in 4 weeks time let's bring in
Saleem o who's a UNICEF spokesperson for
the Middle East in North Africa he joins
us now from Aman so that's the plan for
this vaccination campaign but are you
confident it can it can succeed in these
current
conditions well it it all depends on the
commitment and implementation on the
ground we already UNICEF wh on and
partners on the ground are already
rolling out and we're very happy to see
that uh the vaccinations have commenced
but the continuation and the coverage is
really uh linked and dependent on on the
implementation and the respect of this
commitment uh and as as you as you said
the commitment is limited to those areas
and it's it's a localized humanitarian
pause for the vaccination uh but we we
hope that this is sufficient to cover
the over 600,000 children that need to
be vaccinated and to reach the over 90%
of uh coverage to be able to stop polio
um where it is
now and if you can't reach that uh that
goal well that's that's going to be a
catastrophic uh uh event a real Health
catastrophe because polio we all know
polio is a highly contagious disease
it's uh the outcome is really uh uh uh
uh Grim it's either paralysis or death
even
um and it really in in these contexts in
in Gaza crowded as it is uh with all the
lack of the basic health systems and
hygiene uh supplies and water and uh all
the such it's going to it's going to
prove to be to be catastrophic and
that's why it's imperative to to have it
now and there's no other option other
than vaccinations polio can't be treated
but can be prevented and that's where we
need to put all the effort uh uh now and
that's what we're trying to do and
that's why we really need uh this to
work and this uh uh um pose commitment
to to take place of course whether it
works depends on on whether or not it's
safe enough for people to bring their
children to these vaccination and
centers that is surely difficult if not
impossible for many families if they're
being you know pounded from the
sky well surely that's why that's why
we're really looking at the to to to
allow people to move to to those centers
we have 11 main centers across the uh
the strip and of course mobile teams to
go and vaccinate uh children uh all
around but that all again it it all
depends on uh these poses and the Safety
and Security not only of our teams but
of course of Children and Families
coming in to to to receive the vaccine
how much more effective would this
campaign be in the event of a general
ceasefire in Gaza that would allow
people to get around safely and access
the um access what you're
offering well that that would be the
dream really uh we've been calling for a
ceasefire for humanitarian uh uh reasons
for so long and it doesn't get any more
humanitarian than a polio uh uh uh um
cases coming up in Gaza in this in this
situation so really a ceas fire would
make everyone's life just much easier uh
it will guarantee a full coverage which
we had before uh uh the war started uh
and we'll just stop it uh uh right where
it is without any fear of spread and and
the fear is not only in Gaza now the
fear is is regional polio doesn't know
borders so we really need to stop this
we we hoped for a ceasefire it didn't
happen and this is what and we we asked
for a 7 Days uh uh uh pause but this is
what we have now and we think uh with
this if it holds we can reach out the
children and and have a good coverage
but yeah but we'll see what today's
bring and uh hopefully we will be able
to do our
jobs of course polio is a is a health
catastrophe for Gaza but there is a
major Public Health crisis in the strip
right now because of uh the the
unhygienic conditions that people are
living in overcrowding polluted water
sewage what else are you worried
about well exactly what you said um I've
been um I was in Gaza just recently and
you couldn't visit a family or talk to a
person without a relative a member of
the family that is either sick uh uh
with uh uh whe whether it's diarrhea
respiratory system this dises rashes you
can't see a group of children without at
least one or two of them uh with rashes
it's it's really dire uh the the health
response is really bad going into
hospitals you can see children really uh
uh just flooding the the hallways and
being treated there or waiting for
treatment that is really not in the
hospitals so so that's a real a real
concern of course security and safety in
general continues to be a big concern
and unfortunately with each attack we
see uh children among the casualties
this needs to stop of course the focus
now is on polio and diseases but but the
war continues and children continue to
die because of of that and now even
because of preventable preventable
causes okay thank you very much Saleem o
for explaining uh the situation there
for is thank you for joining us from
UNICEF
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from alaz